HELLO WORLD
"""""""""""


HISTORY OF THE HELLO WORLD PROBLEM

Brian Kernighan actually wrote the first "hello, world" program as part of the
documentation for the BCPL programming language developed by Martin Richards.
BCPL was used while C was being developed at Bell Labs a few years before the
publication of Kernighan and Ritchie's C book in 1972.

As part of the research for a book Chuck Herbert was writing about the Alice
programming environment, I corresponded with both Prof. Kernighan at Princeton
and Martin Richards at Cambridge (when I was teaching a seminar there in the
1990’s). They helped him to track the first documented use of code to print the
message "Hello, World!” Brian Kernighan remembered writing the code for part of
the I/O section of the BCPL manual. Martin Richards -- who seems to have a
treasure trove of notes, old documents, etc. -- found the manual and confirmed
that this was the original appearance of the program. The code was used for
early testing of the C compiler and made its way into Kernighan and Ritchie's
book. Later, it was one of the first programs used to test Bjarne Stroustrup's
C++ compiler.

It became a standard for new programmers after it appeared in Kernighan and
Ritchie, which is probably the best selling introduction to programming of all
time.



BENEFITS

This is probably the simplest program to execute in almost every programming
language and the execution of it demonstrates that at least the user has learnt
(at least) two things:

1. How to execute the compiler/interpreter with his source code without
compilation errors (i.e. he understands the simplest subset of the language to
be syntactically correct)

2. How to create output from the program in the simplest form with his/her
chosen language (i.e. do something useful)


THE PROBLEM 

Create a program that will output the characters HELLO WORLD to the standard
output device (historically this was the terminal being UNIX - but for  MVS
this is the printed output) 
